Any questions on errors and
error handling in Node js?
Good question.
How are we able to use
the process without importing it?
Well, that's because process is an actual
global variable inside of node js.
It's one of the globals that I talked
about here he goes to the global slide.
I think I've talked about process here.
Yep, so process is given to me for free.
It's part of the global space,
just like the keyword import is there
just like the keyword module is there.
Process is one of those
things that you get for free.
I don't know how node determines what
should be internal module that you have to
import versus what should be
a global that's just there, but
they decided that process was gonna be
a global that you don't have to import.
Whereas fs has got to be something
that you do have to import.
I think there's like a level of like
importance, process is very important.
I would imagine there's really not too
many apps you can use without building,
without interacting with
the process some point.
So I think they felt that was so important
that it should have been a global and
not something that should be imported.
Whereas fs yeah, you could probably make
a bunch of apps without ever using fs.
So we'll make that import
a module that you have to import.
I'm guessing I don't know,
the thought behind that
>> What's the difference between an error
and an exception?.
>> There is, the only differences is
that an error can cause an exception.
So if you have an error,
as in some discrepancy,
some miscommunication in your app,
if you throw the error that raises
an exception so
an error alone is just an object.
It's just an object about some metadata
like here's a line of code, here's where
it broke, here's what happened,
the type of error, nothing happens until
you actually throw that error, which
causes an exception built into JavaScript.
That's just how JavaScript executes.
So yeah, you can think of an exception is
like an error that was like escalated to
the highest level.
It's like getting a customer service and
like speaking to a manager, that's.
[LAUGH] That's an exception.
Where's the errors you just calling and
complaining in the first place.
So that's the difference.
This is gonna come in handy.
So I want you to remember the error stuff.
And the reason I wanted to talk about this
one is because this one really messed me
up for a long time,
especially async errors.
I just did not understand it.
Like I went back and looked at some of
the code that I wrote in like 2014 and
I was just laughing like.
[LAUGH] I wasn't handling anything.
I wasn't doing anything like if
anyone just mistype one word,
my whole app will crash and I just didn't,
I didn't even know it back then.
So, yeah, pay attention to the errors.
Luckily for you,
most of the frameworks and
abstractions at your use will have really
nice built in error support hooks that
you can tie in to that makes it so
easy to format things and do stuff.
But yeah, take advantage of that.
Watch errors and be cautious.
The question was,
is await blocking a thread?
And if so, why are we using it
versus just using synchronous?
That's a really great question.
And the fact that you asked that question
tells me that await is doing its job.
It gives you the illusion
that is blocking a thread.
That's the whole point.
The whole point is that it should
feel like synchronous code.
It should feel like It is blocking and
nothing else is happening, but
that's not actually what's happening.
If you were to look at what
await gets transpiled into,
it actually gets turned into what's
called a generator, which is like,
you can think of a generator ,it's
like an async four loop, basically.
So it's the equivalent as if
you basically put the code that
comes after the async await.
inside of a dot done callback, or inside
of a callback of asynchronous function.
It's the same thing functionally, but
visually it looks like it's blocking
because async await was really only
created to solve a visual problem
promises, or in fact, callbacks already
solved the functional problem of like,
well, I want this code to run
after some asynchronous thing.
callbacks solved that years ago.
Promises was an attempt to
make it visually better.
Instead of having all
these nested callbacks.
Thanks to node and databases.
We had these you never see this pattern
on the front end you would never see 20
nested callbacks on the front end never on
async because you didn't make 20 API calls
on the front ended and 20 event
handler calls nested in each other.
It wasn't until when time come people
started interacting with other APIs and
databases where we saw this crazy async
patterns where promises were invented to
keep them somewhat flat.
You can do a dot den followed by
another dot den and another catch and
it was somewhat flat just one level deep.
But it was still wasn't top to bottom cuz
you can put something after the dot den
and that was still execute first
before the previous dot den so
it was still not really solving
that problem for people.
Understanding to read from top to bottom,
like other languages that are blocking
that have threads like Python or
something like that.
So async await was created to
solve the visual problem of okay,
you're just gonna read it
from top to bottom, but
it's still gonna work like callbacks,
okay, it's still gonna work in the back.
In event loop is just that this code
has been added to the callback.
So yes, it does look that way.
But no, it is not blocking.
>> So along with that,
if you're awaiting something,
can you continue to process other things?
>> No, cuz if you put await
in front of something,
the next line won't execute
until read file comes
back with a result or throws an error.
It won't even be read and
wanting to be seen.
Because it's the equivalent
of putting it in a callback.
It just won't happen.
So no you cannot continue to process
something that defeats the purpose of
the await.
If you want to continue processing
something while something else
is happening in the background,
then you won't use async await you will
use a callback or you use dot den.
And then now you can have code
that reads from top to bottom but
then jumps back up when
it's done which is fine.
Like it's not hard to follow
that code until it gets crazy.
But async await tries to get rid
of that as much as possible.
Me personally, I use async await for
everything because I think it's amazing.
Like it really,
I write code in a lot of languages and
this just makes it feel like
everything else in my opinion,
but it also keeps Java scripts
asynchronous event loop base.
The features that are like
it still has that part but
it makes it look like everything else.
So it's less confusing for me.
So we last left off talking about
Error handling in Node.js and
the different ways that you
can go about doing that.
I emphasize just how important that is
when it comes to deciding on how and
when you shut down your app
depending on what errors.
And that's gonna be more obvious when you
get into building things like servers,
especially servers and
other types of applications
that require user input because sometimes
their input could cause an error but
not a show stopping error game stopping
error that should crash your application.
So that's why that was important.